[THEME MUSIC]
>>EMERY SMITH: Today
on Cosmic Disclosure,
We're with Richard Doty, a
retired Special Agent who
served in the Air Force Office
of Special Investigations.
Richard was intimately
involved with UFO-ET related
intelligence.
Today we are discussing the
real William Moore story.
Richard, welcome to the show.
>>RICHARD C. DOTY:
Thank you, Emery.
Good to be here.
>>EMERY: Well, tell us,
Rick, who is William Moore?
>>DOTY: William Moore.
what an interesting character
within the UFO community.
Bill Moore, I call him.
>>EMERY: Bill.
OK.
>>DOTY: Bill was born in
Pennsylvania, October of 1943.
He had a strange upbringing.
He had dreams about space,
dreams about little creatures
running all over his bed.
When he was seven years
old, he woke up from dream,
and he saw these
little creatures
that were only about 1 to 2
foot tall that were on his bed.
And of course, he didn't
know what they were.
And he called them
the little guys.
And they would play with him.
When he woke up, they would come
into his room and play with him.
So this went on through
his adolescent days
and then they disappeared,
they didn't come back.
But he was always
interested in--
or I should say,
fascinated with space.
Bill always read true magazines.
He read everything he could
on UFOs back in those days.
George Adamski's
books, and everything
he could get his hands on and
watch everything that was on TV.
His most favorite
show or movie on TV
was The Day the Earth Stood
Still, the 1951 version.
>>EMERY: Of course.
>>DOTY: And he would watch that
over and over again as a kid.
He went to high
school and college
at Thiel University
in Pennsylvania,
and then he started teaching
school in Pennsylvania.
He taught English.
He met a woman.
They moved to Minnesota.
He was still fascinated in
the paranormal, fascinated
with UFOs.
And that's when
he decided he was
going to go become a full
time UFO investigator
and start investigating every
one of these claims made
by other people regarding UFOs.
The first thing he saw
once in a magazine was--
he saw a picture of
the USS Eldridge.
Now, remember what happened.
The legend is that 1943--
remember, that's the
same year Bill was born,
the USS Eldridge had
an incident that caused
the USS Eldridge to disappear.
He saw a small article
about it, and then he
saw the picture of
the USS Eldridge.
And that's when
he decided he was
going to write a book about it.
So over a period of a
good year, he researched
everything he could do--
everything he could find on the
USS Eldridge and that incident.
And he ended up writing
the book, The Philadelphia
Experiment.
And it was somewhat of a hit.
And sometime later, he
got with Stan Friedman.
And Stan Friedman, who
most UFO followers knew,
unfortunately, Stan
passed away, but Stan
had some information
about the Roswell case
that Bill had never heard.
And Bill thought there
wasn't enough information
to write a book about
the Roswell case.
But enter Berlitz,
he had information
about the Roswell case.
So they got together and
Bill, over an 18-month period,
researched the Roswell case.
And the first book on the
Roswell incident came out.
Now, Bill had a lot of good
information in that book,
but he also had some
information in that book
that the government didn't
want him to have in that book.
And so prior to him
writing the book
the US intelligence got
hold of Bill and said,
listen, Bill, we don't want
you to write this, this
and this in a book.
We want to-- keep
that stuff out of it.
And in for you doing that
we're going to employ you.
So for the first--
before my contact
with Bill Moore,
Bill Moore was working for US
intelligence, but not the arena
of UFOs, but we knew,
the US intelligence
knew that Bill had contacts with
scientists inside the Soviet
Union.
And this is in the late 70s.
And Bill was corresponding
with one particular scientist
inside the Soviet Union who was
involved in the Soviet Academy
of Science.
>>EMERY: OK.
>>DOTY: Now, obviously, the
CIA is very interested in that,
very interested
in that scientist,
very interested in what
the scientists knew
and the correspondence
that was being
transmitted between that
scientist and Bill Moore.
So US intelligence got involved
and they were telling Bill,
OK, this is what we
want you to write,
this is what we
want you to send him
and this is what
we want you to ask.
And so what Bill
didn't realize was
we had spies inside the
Soviet Union at the time,
and we had a deep
covert operative
that also knew this scientist.
So when Bill was corresponding
with the scientist in a letter--
>>EMERY: Right, letters, right.
>>DOTY: This other deep cover
operative inside the Soviet
Union was giving this scientist
something to send back
to Bill in a cryptic manner.
>>EMERY: Oh, OK.
>>DOTY: Secret writings
and spy material.
And so that was going on
for a long period of time.
And then enter Special
Agent Richard Doty.
I was involved in an operation
to penetrate UFO groups.
And who was the best person
I could think of or in US
intelligence could
think of, to recruit
to penetrate UFO community?
And that was Bill Moore.
I was given an operational plan.
And we knew what Bill's--
because he was already
talking to the CIA,
we knew what his
travel itinerary was.
So Bill was coming to
Albuquerque, New Mexico,
to speak and promote
his book The Roswell
Incident on a local
television station
and on a local radio station.
The television station
interview was canceled,
but the radio interview
was still going on.
Well, guess what.
We had contacts with
in every single news
media in Albuquerque,
and that was
part of counterintelligence
operations.
So I contacted a person
within the radio, KOB radio,
and I said, you're going
to have Bill Moore tomorrow
at whatever time it was.
Yeah, we are.
I said, I want a
copy of the recording
and plus, I'm going to meet him.
And of course, nobody had
cell phones back then.
I said, when you
first meet Bill,
I want you to give
him this phone number
and tell him to call.
And the contact says,
absolutely, we'll do that.
So when Bill got to the radio
station, I was at my office.
The phone call came in.
Yeah, this Bill
Moore, who is this?
I said, this is Special
Agent Richard Doty
with the Air Force Office
of Special Investigations.
>>EMERY: So you
told him right up.
>>DOTY: Right off the bat.
No hiding or anything.
And I said, Bill,
welcome to Albuquerque.
He said, hmm.
So Bill knew his
contact within the CIA,
and he figured that
I was just posing
as somebody other than the CIA,
but he figured I was CIA, too.
And Bill said, yeah,
what do we need--
what do you need?
I said, I need to have lunch
with you after your interview.
I'll come by the train
station, pick you up.
Bill said, no, I
got a rental car.
I said, right, fine.
We'll meet at a
certain restaurant.
Now, that restaurant we were
meeting at, we literally--
and I'm not exaggerating,
US intelligence
owned that restaurant
and everybody in there
was not necessarily
intelligence officers,
but they were working for an
entity that we were controlling.
So there's voice recording
devices and cameras
and so forth.
Anyways, I met him there.
I introduced myself and
asked him about himself
and he tells me his story.
And I said, I'm interested
in the Roswell book,
and we're talking and
we're having lunch.
And he was very
quizzical with me
because he thought, you
got another agenda here,
Doty, it's not--
And he said, you--
after we had dinner
or lunch Bill says,
do you want something from me?
I said, yeah, I do, but we
can talk about it outside.
So we went outside
and there's a--
there's a walkway that led
to some other little cafes
because this is right across
the street from the University
of New Mexico.
>>EMERY: It's got all those
little corridors and all
that, it's very quaint.
>>DOTY: And we were
walking and I said, Bill--
I said, you know, and I
named his CIA handler.
I said, so and so.
Bill says, yeah.
He said, you work with him?
I said, yeah.
He said, so what do-- you want
me to send another letter?
I said, no, no, no, no, no, no.
Nothing about that, Bill.
I want you to do
something else for us.
And this time you'll
be working for me.
And Bill says, what is it?
And I said, I just want
you to get some information
for me regarding some UFO
data that's being stored by--
or in possession of NICAP.
NICAP was-- Bill was involved
with NICAP and APROBAC
back in those days.
>>EMERY: For the audience,
Rick, what's NICAP?
>>DOTY: NICAP is a
National Investigative
Committee for Aerial Phenomena.
>>EMERY: Oh, OK.
>>DOTY: It was a UFO group that
stored and collected information
and reports on-- civilian
agency that reported
and collected data on UFO
sightings or any activity.
>>EMERY: And he's directly
involved with them.
>>DOTY: He is a member--
>>EMERY: A member.
>>DOTY: --of NICAP.
NICAP was getting
information from somebody
that was quite credible.
I should say not only credible,
but involving national security.
>>EMERY: Was a possible
leak you're telling me?
>>DOTY: It was a
leak, and we wanted
Bill to try to penetrate
and get information.
But I told Bill, Bill--
I said, listen, Bill,
there's two people in NICAP
that I want you to just talk to
and get some information from.
Would you do that for us?
And Bill says,
well, I don't know.
I said, well, we'll pay you.
And depending on the
information you can get for me.
And now remember, at this
time, Bill did not have a job.
>>EMERY: Right.
>>DOTY: Bill left
his teaching job.
He lived in Arizona,
Prescott, Arizona.
He had a wife and two
children at that time.
The other one wasn't born
for another year later.
And he was researching, and he
got money from The Philadelphia
Experiment.
But it would be nice for him
to be paid something else.
And Bill thought about
it and he said, well,
let me get back
with you on that.
And I said, you know what, Bil?
I need an answer now.
And he said, yeah,
OK, I'll do it.
And that began a long
term relationship
between Bill Moore and myself.
>>EMERY: So Rick,
what kind of things
were you trying to
get Mr. Moore to do?
>>DOTY: No matter what task
I gave Bill, he completed it.
>>EMERY: Wow.
>>DOTY: It was not just NICAP.
It was some of the
other UFO groups.
And he was able to penetrate
these groups because Bill
Moore's name was prominent
within the UFO community
in the 70s because he
put himself in there.
And that's the
best agent or asset
you could have within a group
that you're trying to penetrate,
is somebody who's
already in there, not
from somebody from
the outside that's
trying to get in the group.
Somebody is already in there.
>>EMERY: I'm sure these
organizations also
wanted him part of
their organizations
because of who he was.
>>DOTY: Right.
The book, The
Philadelphia Experiment,
the new book The Roswell
Incident that just came out,
they loved him.
And so they opened
the door for him.
>>EMERY: So were you trying
to get information from Moore
about the individuals
that are working
in these groups or the
individuals that are leaking
information in the groups?
>>DOTY: We wanted
everything Bill could
get from the group,
both information
they were receiving
from private citizens
and what information
they were getting
from government personnel.
And here is the reason.
These UFO groups
back in those days,
there wasn't cell
phones or anything,
these people were sending
letters or calling a number
and providing information
or data about sightings.
We wanted to know where these
sightings were happening.
We wanted knowing what
these civilians were
telling this civilian group.
We didn't have access to that.
We only had access to what
the military personnel
were telling us.
The civilians,
every now and then
they might call
an Air Force base
and say something,
because remember,
Blue Book was
closed at that time,
and there wasn't any
other reporting system.
But these private--
>>EMERY: Organizations
were the go to.
>>DOTY: These UFO
groups were the go to.
And so we wanted to
keep track of everything
that these civilians
were telling the group.
And so Bill set up a system
inside each one of these groups
to report any
information pertaining
to not just the sighting
of something in the sky,
but something with substantial
information or evidentiary
value that would be interested--
interesting to the government.
Bill set up a system by himself.
>>EMERY: Wow.
So innovative.
>>DOTY: So innovative.
And he was constantly--
in fact, he
was giving us so
much information
that I couldn't
handle it by myself.
There would have-- there
were two other agents
and an administrative assistant,
what we call an intelligence
analyst, to collect the
data that he was giving us.
And what we were doing
with it is we were plotting
and then we were sending reports
back up to our headquarters
and also to DIA, and DIA would
use it for other reasons.
So Bill was the
conduit that we used
to get literally
hundreds of reports
that we wouldn't have
been able to get.
>>EMERY: So what were you
getting from civilians
that the government
themselves couldn't get?
>>DOTY: Well, one
thing we were getting
was research and
development crafts that
were flying in certain areas.
We knew they were
up there, but we
didn't know how many civilians
were seeing these things,
and what were the reaction of
these civilians to these crafts
that we were flying.
The F-117 and some of
these other crafts,
the Aurora, the TR-3s.
We wanted to know where these
things were being sighted.
Now, a lot of the information,
I would say probably
60% of the information
that Bill was given to us,
were easily identifiable,
other objects, space objects
or atmospheric anomalies.
But the 40% that we
were getting were really
good sightings of these
classified aircrafts
that were flying.
And these classified aircrafts
weren't only flying out
of Groom Lake in
and around Nevada,
but they would fly overseas.
They would be on missions into
Canada or over the Pacific
and things like that.
>>EMERY: Now, did you
allow him to know this?
Was he privy to that
information or you just kept it?
You just said, oh, we're just
investigating these UAPs?
>>DOTY: No, Bill, never--
it was only one way--
it's always one way.
>>EMERY: OK.
>>DOTY: He gave us
the information.
>>EMERY: That was it.
>>DOTY: And we gave him money.
>>EMERY: Got it.
>>DOTY: So he was doing
it for pay and prestige
because he was good
at what he was doing.
He was the best.
There were no other--
and we had other assets.
>>EMERY: Sure.
>>DOTY: Other agents
at other bases
had assets within
the UFO groups,
but they weren't very good.
They didn't have the
clout that Bill Moore
had with these UFO groups.
And Bill, number one,
was an excellent speaker.
He was very smart,
very intelligent man.
He had an excellent
reasoning ability
and he could portray things
to people that they might not
normally would do.
So he could trick people
into doing things.
And he was still involved
in the Soviet operation,
but he was also
involved with us.
So that was one of many things
Bill did for US intelligence.
>>EMERY: And what other
case did you task Bill for?
>>DOTY: The Paul Bennewitz case.
Now, Paul knew Bill Moore.
He didn't know him well enough
to call him on a telephone,
but knew of him.
And Paul had read both The
Philadelphia Experiment
and The Roswell Incident,
so he knew of Bill more.
We thought during the early
stages of the Paul Bennewitz
case that we would bring in Bill
to introduce himself to Paul,
to see if Paul would tell Bill
certain things that he wouldn't
tell me.
Now, remember, this is in
the early stages of the Paul
Bennewitz investigation.
Probably know me before, and
we're talking a few months
into the investigation.
But he knew a Bill because
he had mentioned Bill Moore,
and I saw the books
on Paul's desk
in his bookcase, The
Philadelphia Experiment
and The Roswell Case.
So I thought, hmm.
So I talked it over
with my supervisors
and I said, I think we should
bring Bill Moore in just
to make him have contact with
Paul to see what happens.
>>EMERY: For the viewers, what
is the Paul Bennewitz case file?
>>DOTY: OK, Paul Bennewitz
was a civilian scientist.
He had a government contract.
He had his own company
called Thunder Scientific,
which was just outside
Kirtland Air Force base.
Paul tapped into some highly
classified programs on Kirtland
Air Force base, and we
started a counterintelligence
investigation on Paul Bennewitz.
>>EMERY: OK.
>>DOTY: We wanted to know how
he got the information that
is classified.
So we brought in Bill Moore.
Bill Moore called him one day
and said, hey, I'm Bill Moore.
I understand you have a business
right outside Kirtland Air Force
base, Thunder scientific, and
that you are a fan of mine.
And Paul was somewhat shocked.
At first Paul didn't
believe it was Bill Moore,
and Bill had to
convince him it was.
And Bill says, I
can come right now.
I'm in Albuquerque.
So he said, well,
come out to my office.
So he goes out to the
Thunder Scientific
and Bill introduces himself.
He brings two books.
Of course, Paul
already has the books,
but he gave Paul signed copies,
and he just got to know Paul.
What are you doing?
What kind of business
do you have here?
And so forth and so on.
And then Paul, without
any prodding from Bill,
immediately started telling
Bill about what was occurring
on Kirtland Air Force base.
And Bill, he didn't know exactly
what Paul had delved into,
but Bill says, well, what
are you talking about?
And then Paul laid it all out.
And now Bill thought
that Paul was
relating classified
information because his--
Paul Bennewitz's company was
dealing in classified projects
for DARPA.
And so Bill was hesitant to get
any more information from Paul.
But Paul volunteered it.
Hey, come out to my house.
I'll show you how to do it.
We do it.
And he did that.
Paul showed him how he
photographed these objects
over Kirtland Air
Force base, how
he tapped into this unique
signal frequency, and all
these things.
Well, immediately the next
day, Bill calls me and says,
I got to talk to you.
So I meet Bill at a secure
location off the base.
We had a number of safe places.
And Bill says, this guy is nuts.
I said, what do you mean?
He says, he told me everything.
I think he's telling
me classified stuff.
I said, what are
you talking about?
And he tells me--
Bill tells me everything
that Paul had told him.
I said, well.
OK, Bill, I want you to
go back wearing a wire.
I want to hear it everything--
>>EMERY: Oh, wow.
>>DOTY: --that
Paul's telling you.
So we set him up with a wire.
Bill calls.
I think it was like, the
following Monday or something
to that effect.
And, of course, yeah, yeah.
Come on out.
So he goes out first to the
Thunder Scientific laboratories
and Paul gave him a tour.
And now there are
classified things
that Thunder Scientific
makes, like the humidity
sensors for submarines,
a particular component
inside a nuclear weapon.
But Paul didn't talk about that.
He was very careful
not to show him that.
But he did say
that room in there,
everything we do in there
is highly classified.
I can't take you in there.
So now Bill basically
tells if Bill was a spy,
oh, that's where I
have to go into and get
whatever one of those things.
And then that night Paul
took Bill out to the house
again for dinner and
went back up and started.
So we have hours of
Paul explaining to Bill
a lot of stuff that
he wasn't supposed to.
So Bill turns everything over
to us, and then of course
we confront Paul later
and read him the Riot Act.
>>EMERY: Oh.
>>DOTY: Anyways.
What Bill did was he
maintained contact with Paul,
and he wasn't supposed to.
I said, you know what, you
need to get out of dodge.
We don't want you to be burdened
by the Paul Bennewitz case.
So just get out of there.
Well, in the
meantime, Leo Sprinkle
calls Bill Moore
up and says, hey,
I hear you're in Albuquerque.
And Bill says, well,
how do you know I'm
at this hotel in Albuquerque?
Paul Bennewitz told me.
Paul Bennewitz told you?
Yeah.
I understand you've been
spending a few days with him.
He said-- Bill says, well,
yeah, but he told you this?
Yeah, Leo says.
And Leo says, I'm
here with Allen Hynek,
and we're going
to meet with Paul
and can we get
together beforehand.
>>EMERY: Rick, for
the audience, can you
tell everyone who Leo Sprinkle
is, and of course, Allen Hynek?
>>DOTY: Yeah, Leo Sprinkle
is a UFO investigator,
a psychologist, and he
investigated abductions,
wrote some books about UFOs.
Allen Hynek is a
doctor, a scientist.
He was involved intimately
with the Project Blue Book
and also the ending of Project
Blue Book, the Candem report.
He provided information
to Candem that
ended up in the Candem report.
But Allen Hynek is probably
famous for being in Close
Encounters of the Third Kind.
He's actually in that film.
So that's who they are.
So they came to talk to Paul.
Bill Moore intercepted
him before--
actually, the night before
at a hotel in Albuquerque.
And Bill wanted to know
what they were doing there.
And Allan said, we have--
have a monitor, a
computer monitor
that we're going to give Paul.
And Bill says, why would
you want to do that?
Well, Paul is
involved in this case
where he's in contact
with extraterrestrials
and we want to give him
this newer model monitor
so he could collect more data.
Now, this came out in a
number of different venues
over the years,
but nobody actually
knew how we knew that Hynek gave
Paul this monitor beforehand.
And that's because
Bill Moore told us.
And Leo Sprinkle was there
because of Myrna Hansen.
She was an abductee that was--
Paul Bennewitz was
going to try to finance
some of the things for her.
She was abducted in Northern
New Mexico some time before.
So anyways, the
night before they
were going to give
Paul the monitor
and talk to Paul
about Myrna Hansen.
Paul called me, but
I wasn't available.
I had an answering machine,
and he left his message
on the answering machine.
And then late at
night, Bill calls me.
He says, I've got
to talk to you.
We got a problem
with Paul Bennewitz.
And I said, it's 11:00 at night.
What kind of problem do we have?
He said, I need to talk to you.
I said, OK, I'll go.
But just before I left, I
saw that there was a message.
So I hit the message.
And it's Paul.
And Paul tells me, I need to see
you tomorrow afternoon, Rick.
He called me Richard.
And so I go out and meet Bill
at an all night restaurant
on Central Avenue and not
in a very good district.
>>EMERY: I know.
>>DOTY: Albuquerque between
Wyoming, Louisiana, and I
said, yeah, what do you want?
What do you need?
He said, Allen Hynek
and Leo Sprinkle
are here to see Paul Bennewitz.
I said, well, first of
all, I had no idea who
Leo Sprinkle was at that time.
>>EMERY: OK.
>>DOTY: I said, who are they?
He said, you don't
know who they are?
I said, no.
I think I've heard
of Hynek, but I don't
know who is this other guy.
And then Bill explains
to who he was.
I said, well, what do they
to talk to Paul about?
They have a computer that
they're going to give him.
So the bells go off.
And I thought, oh, a computer.
Now, he says, a computer.
So I said, OK, all right,
I'll take care of it tomorrow.
So I said, I want you to call
Paul tomorrow afternoon and set
up an appointment just
between you and Paul.
Bill says, OK.
And I'm going to give you
information to tell Paul.
Well, the next--
then I go back--
and the next morning, I
get up and go to the office
and I call Paul because he had
called me the night before.
I say, Paul.
Richard, what do you need?
He said, I need to talk
to you this afternoon.
I said, what time?
4:00.
OK, no problem.
So he said, but I want to
see you at my business,
not at my home.
So OK.
So I go see Paul.
And Paul says, I think.
Bill Moore is a spy.
>>EMERY: Whoa.
>>DOTY: Now, we're
in his office.
>>EMERY: This is great.
>>DOTY: And it's just him and I.
>>EMERY: Right.
>>DOTY: Well, him and I and
a bug that we put in there.
And I said, a spy?
He said, yeah, he's a spy.
I said, why-- why
do you say that?
He says, because he's
reporting to somebody on me.
I said, why do you say that?
He said, I know,
I know, Richard.
Now, Paul has a temper.
>>EMERY: Right.
>>DOTY: And of course, he's
chain smoking cigarettes.
>>EMERY: Oh, gosh.
>>DOTY: And I said,
well, calm down, Paul.
I said, so you think Bill
Moore is a spy, for who?
The Soviets.
He's been in my laboratory
and he just goes on and on.
>>EMERY: And it's
you the whole time.
>>DOTY: It's me all the time.
So I don't say anything to him.
Now, the subject of the computer
and the monitor never comes.
>>EMERY: Never comes up.
Of course not.
>>DOTY: And so I thought,
well, you know what?
Paul, I'm going to
investigate that.
He said, you need to arrest him.
You need to arrest him.
>>EMERY: Wow.
>>DOTY: We can't
just arrest a spy.
We got to-- we got to
build a case on him.
I said, so I need you to
maintain contact with him.
>>EMERY: Perfect.
>>DOTY: So he said,
OK, I'll collect.
I'll collect the information.
So now we have what we refer to
in the intelligence community
as a daisy chain, you know.
So about a week later,
or maybe more than that,
I go to Paul's house.
And I'm talking to Paul
and collecting the data
that we had-- we were collecting
there and I see this monitor
and I noticed that it wasn't
the same brand as the other one.
I said, did you
buy a new monitor?
He goes, no.
Allen Hynek gave it to me.
>>EMERY: Ooh.
I feel it's going--
>>DOTY: I said--
>>EMERY: Oh, my goodness.
>>DOTY: --Allen Hynek
brought this to you?
>>EMERY: Oh, my goodness.
>>DOTY: He said, yeah.
I said, did Bill Moore have
anything to do with this?
Yeah, yeah, yeah, Bill
did, which Bill didn't.
>>EMERY: Right.
>>DOTY: He said,
also Leo Sprinkle.
I said, who is this
Leo Sprinkle guy?
And he tells me.
He says, well you know
about Myrna Hansen, right?
And I said, I have no idea
who you're talking about.
He said, she's an
abductee that's
been out at Kirtland Air
Force base underground
where the aliens are.
I said, OK, OK.
Paul, you can tell me
about that in a bit,
but I'm worried about
your monitor over here,
Hynek gave that to you.
So anyways, we ended up getting
our technical people out--
Jessica, who's-- she was an
agent, but she's a computer wiz.
She came out, take
the computer--
monitor back, tear apart.
It was-- it was just a monitor.
>>EMERY: Really?
>>DOTY: There wasn't
anything in it.
And so now I could contact
Jerry Brown, FBI, and I said,
we're going to do something
about this Allen Hynek
guy in this Leo Sprinkle.
And he said, what
about Bill Moore?
I said, Bill Moore?
Jerry, how did Bill
Moore-- now, Jerry Brown
was an FBI foreign
counterintelligence specialist.
We worked-- I worked
with him all the time.
Any kind of espionage
in the United States
is the FBI's purview.
And we had cases that were
running together and so forth.
And he said, we got a call,
an anonymous call here
at our office about Bill Moore.
And I said, uh, let me come
down and explain it to you.
So we go down and I explain
and we get on a special system
and I say, check this number
because all our assets have
a number.
Oh, he's working for us.
Yeah.
This guy called.
I said the guy who called
is Bill, Paul Bennewitz,
I can tell you.
What?
As I said, it's a cluster.
>>EMERY: Yeah.
>>DOTY: So anyway,
Jerry and I went out
to where Leo and Allen Hynek
were staying in a hotel,
and we read him the Riot Act.
In fact, Jerry read
it the Riot Act.
Jerry said, you know what?
You guys go and contact
Paul Bennewitz again,
I'm going to have a
federal restaurant.
>>EMERY: Oh, wow.
>>DOTY: Jerry says, I might just
go ahead and seize everything
in this room and going
to get a warrant.
And so it scared
them and they left.
Anyways, I get billed
to work against Paul
without Paul knowing--
because Paul thinks
he's collecting on Bill
because he's a spy.
>>EMERY: Right.
>>DOTY: And technically.
>>EMERY: He is.
>>DOTY: Bill is a spy.
>>EMERY: For us.
>>DOTY: For us.
Anyways, that carried on into--
and then from that point,
enter Jaime Shandera.
>>EMERY: Who's that?
>>DOTY: Jaime Shandera
received a package in the mail.
Ended up to be the
MJ-12 documents.
>>EMERY: Oh.
>>DOTY: He gave
them to Bill Moore.
Bill Moore circulated
it to some people
to try to figure out if they're
accurate or legitimate or not.
They then went out
to other people
because we didn't have
any internet back then.
And so that's how the MJ-12
documents came into existence.
And from that point on,
they were circulated
and they're still
on the internet.
>>EMERY: Right, still there.
Were those documents legitimate?
>>DOTY: Well, you know, I
didn't generate them, but we--
pretty sure we know who did.
And they were generated
within the government
by the Defense Intelligence
Agency Special Means Committee.
And so they're probably half the
truth and half disinformation.
>>EMERY: Right.
What was the intention
of that being released?
>>DOTY: Flooding the
market, so to speak.
>>EMERY: OK.
>>DOTY: Because everyone-- every
UFO group got a copy of this.
And now they're
thinking that everything
that's in this
document is factual
because it came from Bill Moor.
>>EMERY: Right.
>>DOTY: And so they're spreading
this disinformation out there.
Again, probably some of that,
those documents, information
in there is factual.
But most of it's not.
So the disinformation
is spread through just
like a virus being spread.
And that was a goal of
the MJ-12 documents,
was spreading that
disinformation
through the UFO groups.
>>EMERY: Rick, what
was the point of that?
- Well, remember, the UFO
groups were getting information
from government sources.
If we give them all this--
give these groups
all this information
and some of the information
doesn't coincide
with what this
government guy is given,
now you're flooding the
market, so to speak.
You're confusing the
UFO groups and they
don't know which way to turn.
And that's exactly the way
the government wanted it.
>>EMERY: So you're using
Bill for information
and disinformation.
At what point did these collide?
And what was the result of that?
>>DOTY: Well, Bill became
a maverick, so to speak.
And he went out on
his own and did things
that we didn't ask him to do.
And we had a rainy man in 1988.
>>EMERY: Mm-hmm.
>>DOTY: A rainy man who told
him, you're no longer working
for the government,
and everything that you
did for US is still sensitive
and you can't report it.
And of course, a year
later, in 1989, Bill Moore
made his famous speech
at a UFO convention
telling the audience that he
worked for the Air Force Office
of Special Investigations.
He was being paid to
provide disinformation
to every one of the UFO groups.
And he was-- if security
hadn't been present,
he would have
probably been hung.
And he got out of the
UFO business after that.
And he-- some people don't
even know where he's at today.
>>EMERY: Rick, what lessons can
be learned about Moore's story,
you know, with the intersection
of all the government activities
and the civilian research?
>>DOTY: Well, Bill Moore
was a very important asset
for the United States government
for a number of years.
But then he decided that he was
going to go out and do things
that wasn't--
missions that he wasn't allowed
to do or wasn't told to do.
And he ruined his
own credibility
by collecting data that
he shouldn't have had
and making contact
with people he
shouldn't have ever contacted.
So he ruined his own
career in US intelligence.
>>EMERY: Why do you think
he whistleblowed on himself?
>>DOTY: He wanted to get out.
That was a way for
him to get out.
I met with him right before.
He didn't tell me he was
going to give that speech,
but I was there.
I was in the second row.
He told me he was
going to give a speech
and he wanted to get
out of the business.
And that speech certainly
kicked him out of the business.
>>EMERY: So do you see any
parallels between the work
that Moore did and of course,
all the work that you did?
>>DOTY: Yeah.
He collected data,
he distributed it.
It was our job to recruit
as many assets as we could.
He was an asset.
He did his job.
For the most part, for
a good number of years,
he did exactly what he was told
to do, how he was told to do it,
when he was told to
do it and collected
the information that we needed.
>>EMERY: What's your
motivation for being
here at this time, Rick?
>>DOTY: I want disclosure.
>>EMERY: Hmm.
Right.
>>DOTY: I've been fighting
for disclosure for 22 years,
just like everyone else is.
And I figure if I come out and
tell the absolute truth of what
I did during my time
in US intelligence,
that maybe that will
open up some doors
for either other people
or the government
to come clean on what they
know about the United States
government involvement
with extraterrestrials,
the UAP and UFO program
within the government.
And that's why I'm doing it.
>>EMERY: What do you
believe this disclosure will
do for people, Rick?
>>DOTY: Enlighten them,
make them understand
that what was occurring
during those days
where the government was
hiding facts from us.
And we want-- and I'm
part of the public.
I'm no longer employed by the
United States intelligence
service.
And I want disclosures
just as much as everybody
out there does.
>>EMERY: And do you feel that
other people are coming forward
that have similar
backgrounds that you have?
>>DOTY: Absolutely.
>>EMERY: Right.
>>DOTY: They're coming
out every single day.
>>EMERY: Yes, they are.
>>DOTY: And I'm
encouraging them to do.
And there's a lot--
waiting to come out.
>>EMERY: Yes.
>>DOTY: And I'm
trying to influence
them to not just come out, but
to come on Cosmic Disclosure
to tell their story.
>>EMERY: Right.
Well, we really appreciate that.
And I do believe that's
happening every day too.
Rick, I want to thank you
for being on the show.
>>DOTY: Thank you, Emery.
Good to be here.
>>EMERY: I'm Emery Smith, and
this is Cosmic Disclosure.
Until next time.
[THEME MUSIC]